Your heart has four compartments or chambers.
The right chambers hold returning blood
and pump it into the lungs.
The left chambers collect and pump
oxygenated blood to the rest of the body.
The upper chambers or atria hold the blood
and the ventricles on the bottom pump it out.
The aortic valve is on the left side of the heart.
It opens to let blood flow from the left
ventricle into the aorta,
which carries blood to the rest of the body.
It closes between heartbeats
to keep blood from moving back into the ventricle.
When the aortic valve doesn’t open
or close as it should,
the heart has to work harder to pump enough
blood through the valve into the aorta.
This can cause symptoms such as chest pain
and shortness of breath.
A common cause
is being born with a valve that has one or two
rather than three tissue flaps, called leaflets.
This can prevent the valve from opening properly
called stenosis—or closing properly—called regurgitation.
Another common cause is that
the valve becomes worn with age.
When this happens, the body
deposits calcium on the leaflets,
which can limit their movements so
they can’t fully open or close.
A faulty aortic valve may need
to be surgically replaced with an
artificial or prosthetic valve.